Update environment variables documentation (#1148)
astronomer/docs: astro/environment-variables.md

description: Set environment variables on Astro to specify Airflow configurations and custom logic.
---

> 

Author: ```suggestion

import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

```

An environment variable on Astro is a key-value configuration that is applied to a specific Deployment. You can use environment variables to set Airflow configurations and custom values for Deployments on Astro. For example, you can use environment variables to:

- Identify a production Deployment versus a development Deployment that allows you to apply conditional logic in your DAG code.
- Store [Airflow connections and variables](environment-variables.md#add-airflow-connections-and-variables-using-environment-variables).
- Set up an SMTP service to receive [Airflow alerts](airflow-alerts.md) by email.
- Integrate with Datadog or other third-party tooling to [export Deployment metrics](deployment-metrics.md#export-airflow-metrics-to-datadog).
- Set [Airflow configurations](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html?), such as default timezone and maximum active runs per DAG.

Some environment variables on Astro are set globally and cannot be overridden for individual Deployments. For more information on these environment variables, see [Global environment variables](platform-variables.md).

## Set environment variables in the Cloud UI

> If you prefer to work with the Astro CLI, you can create and update environment variables using the `astro deployment variable create` and `astro deployment variable update` commands. See [CLI command reference](cli/astro-deployment-variable-create.md).

Reviewer: CLI admonition?

    :::caution

>     Environment variables marked as secret are stored securely by Astronomer and are not shown in the Cloud UI. However, it's possible for a user in your organization to create or configure a DAG that exposes secret values in Airflow task logs. Airflow task logs are visible to all Workspace members in the Airflow UI and accessible in your Astro cluster's storage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Environment variables marked as secret are stored securely by Astronomer and are not shown in the Cloud UI. However, it's possible for a user in your organization to create or configure a DAG that exposes secret values in Airflow task logs. Airflow task logs are visible to all Workspace members in the Airflow UI and accessible in your Astro cluster's storage.
```

Reviewer: We have this warning in the middle of the step, but I don't actually think it would influence someone to create a secret or not -- I think it's just an additional task that they can optionally do afterwards. I'm open to:

- Adding it as an optional step to this list
- Moving this paragraph entirely to the "How env vars are stored on Astro" section?

:::caution

> Because environment variables set in your `Dockerfile` are stored in plain text, Astronomer recommends storing sensitive environment variables using either the Cloud UI or a third party secrets backend. For more information, see [Configure a secrets backend](secrets-backend.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Environment variables set in your `Dockerfile` are stored in plain text. For this reason, Astronomer recommends storing sensitive environment variables using the Cloud UI or a third party secrets backend. For more information, see [Configure a secrets backend](secrets-backend.md).
```

:::

To add environment variables, declare an ENV command with the environment variable key and value. For example, the following `Dockerfile` sets two environment variables:

<pre><code parentName="pre">{`FROM quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:${siteVariables.runtimeVersion}
ENV AIRFLOW__CORE__MAX_ACTIVE_RUNS_PER_DAG=1

> ENV AIRFLOW__CORE__PARALLELISM=25`}</code></pre>

Reviewer: Let's remove Parallelism because it's set dynamically on Astro and replace with another more common Env Var -- maybe Datadog integration or ask Frank Cash for an Env var on prod v. dev?

Author: I'm just going to use a custom env var value, seems straightforward enough

> Once your environment variables are added, deploy your changes using one of the following options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you add your environment variables, use one of the following options to deploy your changes:
```

- Run `astro dev restart` to rebuild your image and apply your changes locally.

> - Run `astro deploy` to apply your changes to your running Deployment on Astronomer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Run `astro deploy` to apply your changes to your Deployment on Astro.
```

> Environment variables added to a `Dockerfile` are mounted at build time and can be referenced in any other build process that follows `astro deploy` or `astro dev start`. Environment variables applied in the Cloud UI only become available once the Docker build process is completed.

Reviewer: This might be better at the top of this section?
